{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset77 TimesNewRomanMS;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\vieww12460\viewh12620\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs56 \cf0 Non Rectangular\

\fs28 \
An example of the NonRectangular component is shown below:\
\
\{%comp%\}\
\
Placing the mouse over the top of the red circle causes the circle to turn green.  Further, the component is visually transparent outside the curcle.  That is to say, if this component is placed over the top of another one then all of the underneath component will be visible except for the circle.  This shows how to develop components that are transparent except for an arbitrary non-rectangular shape.  The source code for this component is used to demonstrate how such a component can be implemented in Verdantium.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs40 \cf0 1.0 Execution Options
\fs28 \
\
The component can be launched from ProgramDirector, or it can be run as a standalone application (e.g. using "java verdantium.demo.nonrectangular.NonRectangular").  A number of command-line options are available for standalone execution.  Note that some of these options may not work unless the component is registered in the "apps.cfg" file in the Verdantium distribution.  A summary of some of the options is given here.  Entering the path to a file (either a local path or a URL) on the command line will cause the component, on startup, to attempt to load the file.  If the file contains embedded components, then the initial standalone load from command line will only work for embedded components that are locally defined in the "apps.cfg" file.  If "-help" is specified on the command line for standalone execution (and the component is defined in "apps.cfg") then this help page will be displayed.\
\
It should also be possible to run the component as an Applet using VerdantiumApplet with the Java Plug-In, or to run the component as a Java Bean using the BeanBridge component.  However, the supporting files for doing this are not delivered with typical Verdantium distributions (one would need to bundle one HTML file for each component to be run as an Applet and test them on multiple platforms through multiple browsers, and this isn't currently a priority; there are similar issues for supporting bean compatibility across multiple versions of the Sun BeanBox).  OLE compatibility is possible in theory.  Sun has distributed a bridge that allows Java Beans to display in an OLE container.  The OLE container could load the BeanBridge bean, which could then load any Verdantium component.  This has worked once (Microsoft Word embedded an early version of GeoFrame), but has not been subsequently tested since 1998.  Current Verdantium distributions are not delivered with the jar manifest files that are needed to make this work.  OpenDoc compatibility is no longer possible because the Cyberdog browser does not support JDK 1.4 APIs.\
\
}