{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf330
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset77 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\vieww12020\viewh13680\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs56 \cf0 Draw App\

\fs28 \
DrawApp is a simple drawing program written as a Verdantium component.  Initially, the DrawApp has a totally plain appearance as follows (Note: it's not visible because it's the same color as the page):\
\
\{%comp%\}\
\
\
Right-Clicking (Apple-Click if you're using a Mac) on the DrawApp causes its property editor to be displayed.  This property editor contains a number of tabs for editing different kinds of properties as shown below.\
\
\{%edit0%\}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs40 \cf0 1.0 Document Tab\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf0 \
The document tab contains a series of buttons for selecting what kind of shape one wants to draw on the DrawApp.  This is similar to the tool palette in a program like MacPaint or SuperPaint.  For instance, to draw lines, one would pick "Line Mode."  Each of the modes is described below:\
\
* Edit Mode: Allows the editing of shapes that have already been created.  The control points for each shape appear as cyan rectangles.  Drag any rectangle to manipulate a shape.\
\
* Text Mode: Allows text to be placed in the document.  When in Text Mode a text box will be placed at the point where the user clicked the mouse, and the user can edit text in the box by clicking inside the box and then typing.  The text box runs as an instance of the TextApp component.  For more information on how to use the text box, right-click inside the text box, wait until the property editor for the text box appears, and select the "Help..." item from the "Help" menu of the text box's property editor.\
\
* Line Mode: Draws lines.  When in Line Mode, put the mouse at one endpoint and drag to the other to draw a line.\
\
* Rect Mode: Draws non-filled rectangles.  When in Rect Mode, put the mouse at one corner, and drag to the opposite corner to draw a rectangle.\
\
* Filled Rect Mode: Draws filled rectangles.  When in Filled Rect Mode, put the mouse at one corner, and drag to the opposite corner to draw a filled rectangle.\
\
* Round Rect Mode: Draws non-filled round rectangles.  When in Round Rect Mode, put the mouse at one corner, and drag to the opposite corner to draw a rectangle.\
\
* Filled Round Rect Mode: Draws filled round rectangles.  When in Filled Round Rect Mode, put the mouse at one corner, and drag to the opposite corner to draw a filled round rectangle.\
\
* Oval Mode: Draws non-filled ovals.  When in Oval Mode, drag the mouse to draw an oval.\
\
* Filled Oval Mode: Draws filled ovals.  When in Filled Oval Mode, drag the mouse to draw an oval.\
\
* Polygon Mode: Draws non-filled polygons.  When in Polygon Mode, left-click the mouse on each endpoint of the polygon except for the last one.  Then right-click the mouse on the last endpoint to finish the polygon.\
\
* Filled Polygon Mode: Draws filled polygons.  When in Filled Polygon Mode, left-click the mouse on each endpoint of the polygon except for the last one.  Then right-click the mouse on the last endpoint to finish the polygon.\
\
* Curve Mode: Draws free-form curves using Sun's exciting Java-2D technology.  When in Curve Mode, left-click the mouse on each point that the curve should go through except for the last one.  Then right-click the mouse on the last point to finish the curve.\
\
* Filled Curve Mode: Draws filled free-form curves using Sun's exciting Java-2D technology.  When in Filled Curve Mode, left-click the mouse on each point that the curve should go through except for the last one.  Then right-click the mouse on the last point to finish the curve.\
\
* Erase Mode: Deletes an individual primitive when selected.\
\
* To-Front Mode: Sends an individual primitive to the front when selected.\
\
* To-Back Mode: Sends an individual primitive to the back when selected.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs40 \cf0 2.0 Colors Tab\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf0 \
The colors tab provides an interface for viewing and editing the line and fill color of the DrawApp as shown below.\
\
\{%edit1%\}\
\
The display contains two color cells: one for the line color and one for the fill color.  Each color can be changed by Right-Clicking (Apple-Click if you're using a Mac) on its color cell, producing the color cell property editor shown below:\
\
\
\{%lncol%\}\
\
\
Along the top of the property editor are three tabs that allow the user to select how the color is to be edited.  The "Swatches" tab provides a pre-defined selection of color choices.  The "HSB" tab provides controls for manipulating the hue, saturation, and brightness of the color.  Finally, the "RGB" tab provides controls for manipulating the color in terms of its red, green, and blue components in an additive color system.\
\
In the middle of the property editor is a preview box showing how the selected color will look next to white and black.\
\
Toward the bottom of the property editor are "Apply" and "Help" buttons.  The "Help" button displays help for the color cell.  The "Apply" button applies the color selected in the property editor to the color cell.  No changes are made to the color cell until the "Apply" button is pressed.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs40 \cf0 3.0 Pen Tab\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf0 \
The pen tab provides an effective means for changing the size of the "pen" when drawing.  The pen tab provides controls as shown below:\
\
\
\{%edit2%\}\
\
\
To change the size of the pen, enter the desired size in pixels, and press the "Apply" button.  A more user-friendly version of this interface may be provided in a future version of the software.  A future version of the software may also provide an interface for changing the shape of the pen.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs40 \cf0 4.0 Curve Tab\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf0 \
The curve tab provides a series of controls for altering the shape of curves drawn in the Curve Mode and Filled Curve Mode.  The user interface for this tab is illustrated below.  If you're a CAGD person, these controls might look familiar to you.  If not, here are some general rules of thumb.  FMILL curves tend to look somewhat "tighter" than Bessel curves.  That is to say, Bessel tends to use more round sweeping shapes, while FMILL tends to look more polygonal.  The "Chord Param" checkbox can change how the software reacts when one curve point is much farther from the others, or one curve point is very close to one of the others.  When "Chord Param" is checked, the "bends" in such a curve tend to be more evenly distributed.  Make sure to press the "Apply" button to apply any change that has been made.\
\
\
\{%edit3%\}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs40 \cf0 5.0 Frames Tab\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf0 \
The frames tab contains a ProgramDirectorPropertyEditor that allows the user to insert a component into the DrawApp.  The component is inserted into the DrawApp at the location in the DrawApp where the user right-clicked to create the property editor.  This property editor for inserting adding new components is illustrated below:\
\
\
\{%edit4_0%\}\
\
\
The property editor has three tabs along the top.  The "New" tab allows new instances of a component to be displayed.  Under the new tab is a list of component types followed by the buttons "Apply" and "Help".  Selecting an item from the list, and pressing "Help" will show the help page for that component (if help exists for that particular application).  If no item is selected, or if "Program Director" is selected, clicking help will display a help page for the ProgramDirectorPropertyEditor and the ProgramDirector.  The "Apply" button creates new instances of a component.  To create a new component, select the desired component type from the list and click the "Apply" button.\
\
The "Open File" tab of the property editor provides options as shown below:\
\
\
\{%edit4_1%\}\
\
\
The "Open File" tab allows the user to open files saved on her file system.  There are two ways to use this tab.  The first is to put the full path of the desired file into the text field at the top of the pane, and click the "Apply" button.  The second way to use the tab is to click the "Choose File" button.  This will bring up a dialog that allows the user to browse the file tree, and select the desired file visually.  The "Use File Watcher" check box controls whether the file should be loaded using the FileWatcher component.  FileWatcher is a component that stores a reference to the URL of whatever it loads.  This becomes important in the context of embedding because saving a embedded component without a file watcher will save the component's data, while saving a FileWatcher with an embedded component will save the URL reference.  Hence, a FileWatcher will re-load subsequent changes to the original file by reference.  For most naive users, the default setting of the check box will be the proper one.\
\
The "Open URL" tab's controls are shown below:\
\
\
\
\{%edit4_2%\}\
\
\
This tab allows files to be loaded from any URL on the network.  To use it, enter the desired URL in the textfield at the top of the pane, and click the "Apply" button.  The "Use File Watcher" check box works the same as the one under the "Open File" tab.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs40 \cf0 6.0 Editor Tab\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf0 \
When editing components embedded in a container application such as ContainerApp, DrawApp, or TextApp, a mechanism is needed for the user to tell the system what kind of controls should be displayed.  Take for example an embedded image.  When editing the image, or viewing or printing a document containing an image, the user does not want the controls that resize the image to be part of the display.  However, when attempting to actually move or resize the image these controls become mandatory.  Verdantium addresses this problem by providing a standard control that allows the user to switch between resizing and editing/viewing modes called the Editor Control.  The Editor Control, which runs in the Editor tab of the DrawApp property editor, consists of three radio buttons as shown below:\
\
\
\{%edit5%\}\
\
\
Selecting one of the buttons alerts all open container applications that the mode has changed.  \
\
The top button, Edit Mode, is the primary mode for presentation and for editing the internal properties of components.  Edit Mode displays the embedded components with no border, and does not allow them to be moved or resized.\
\
The middle button, Move Mode, displays full controls for moving and resizing embedded components.  This consists of an MDI window with a title bar, and a resize border.  Dragging the title bar translates the component, and dragging the resize border resizes the component.\
\
The bottom button, Resize Mode, displays controls for resizing but not moving the components.  The MDI window displayed by Resize Mode is similar to that displayed in Mode Mode, except that there is no title bar.  Thus the embedded component can only be resized by dragging its border.\
\
There is one caveat to keep in mind with regard to editing modes, which is that some components only allow "certain individuals" to edit them.  For instance, someone who has designed an electronic document to be read at a kiosk by multiple people would not want the document to be open to editing by random individuals who happen to walk by that kiosk.  As a result, DrawApp has an "Only Designer Edits" mode that prevents the application from displaying move or resize controls on its embedded controls.  This control can be found under the Authoring tab of the property editor.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs40 \cf0 7.0 Border Tab\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf0 \
The Border tab provides a number of options for editing the border of the component, as illustrated below:\
\
\
\{%edit6%\}\
\
\
The choices signify the different borders that can be placed around the component.  A new border is set around the component by pressing the "Apply" button.  The "No Border" choice signifies a component with no border.  This is the default mode for the component.  "Line Border" is a black border that places a single line around the component.  "Matte Border" places a thicker black border around the component.  "Bevel Border" and "Soft Bevel Border" place two different styles of bevel border around the component.  Finally, "Etched Border" places an etched border around the component similar to that for a JButton.  Additional borders may be loaded using the Discovery component.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs40 \cf0 8.0 Background Tab\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf0 \
The Background tab provides a property editor as shown below:\
\
\
\{%edit7%\}\
\
\
The editor for the background property tab allows the user to set the background color and transparency of the component.  Transparency becomes an important characteristic when the component is embedded in other components.  That is to say, the component can be used as a transparent overlay.  The background tab has a ColorCell component near the top that allows the editing of the background color, and a checkbox near the bottom that allows the user to set the transparency of the component.  If the background is set to transparent, the background color is ignored.\
\
The background color can be changed by Right-Clicking (Apple-Click if you're using a Mac) on the color cell, producing the color cell property editor shown below:\
\
\
\{%bkcol%\}\
\
\
Along the top of the property editor are three tabs that allow the user to select how the color is to be edited.  The "Swatches" tab provides a pre-defined selection of color choices.  The "HSB" tab provides controls for manipulating the hue, saturation, and brightness of the color.  Finally, the "RGB" tab provides controls for manipulating the color in terms of its red, green, and blue components in an additive color system.\
\
In the middle of the property editor is a preview box showing how the selected color will look next to white and black.\
\
Toward the bottom of the property editor are "Apply" and "Help" buttons.  The "Help" button displays help for the color cell.  The "Apply" button applies the color selected in the property editor to the color cell.  No changes are made to the color cell until the "Apply" button is pressed.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs40 \cf0 9.0 Authoring Tab\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf0 \
There are a number of situations in which the designer of a document would not want an end-user to be able to edit its content.  For instance, one would not want a document displayed at an electronic kiosk to be edited by random individuals who visit the kiosk.  Thus, individuals who design documents need to be able to operate in a different mode from those who use the documents.  The "Only Designer Edits" check box allows the designer of the document to specify that the document should not be user-editable.  That is to say, the document will not be editable then the DesignerControl component is switched to "User Mode".  The authoring tab with its checkbox is shown below:\
\
\
\{%edit8%\}\
\
\
\
Setting "Only Designer Edits" and "User Mode" simultaneously has the following effects:\
\
* The component pane no longer accepts editing gestures.\
\
* The component pane no longer accepts attempts to display a property editor.\
\
* The component, if it is a container application, will act as if the Editor Control component is set to "Edit Mode," regardless of the actual state of the Editor Control.\
\
Note that this does not lock any property editors that are already open on the component.  Thus the "locking" of the component is watertight only if the component is not displaying any property editors.  This is a reasonable assumption because the only reason one would want to have a property editor open is to edit the component.  Hence when presenting a component to a group of users one would usually not have the component's property editor running at the same time.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs40 \cf0 10.0 The DrawApp property editor's Pull-Down Menus\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf0 \
DrawApp has three pull-down menus, "File", "Macro" and "Help," that provide similar functionality to the "File" and "Help" menus in typical windowing applications, as well as a macro scripting capability.  The Help menu has one item called "Help..." that displays this help page.  The other menus are covered in subsequent sections.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs40 \cf0 10.1 The File Menu\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf0 \
The "File" menu has items called "New", "Open...", "Save", "Save As...", "Page Setup...", "Print Preview...", "Print...", "Exit", etc. respectively, and is discussed more in the following paragraphs.\
\
In the File menu, the menu item called "New" clears the component to its initial state.  The "Open..." menu item brings up a window that allows the user load files previously saved by the DrawApp component.  The same window can also load similarly formatted files from any URL on the network.  Similarly, the "Save As..." menu item brings up a window that allows the user to save the state of the DrawApp anywhere on her file system.  The "Save" menu item works in a way similar to the "Save" item in most GUI apps.\
\
The "Print..." menu item brings up a dialog that allows the user to print the document to a printer.  Analogously, "Page Setup..." and "Print Preview..." display page setup and print preview windows respectively.  "Custom Page Setup..." allows a custom page size to be specified independent of the capabilities of the current printer (for instance to print to a poster-sized page).  Finally, the "Exit" menu item allows the user to quit the component.  However, it first brings up a window that allows the user to save the current state of the component.  After this window is dismissed, the component quits.  If the component is an embedded component, the "Exit" command will remove its embedding frame from the parent container.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs40 \cf0 10.2 The Edit Menu\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf0 \
\
The edit menu contains standard options for undo and global find and replace.\
\
Selecting "Undo..." from this menu produces the following undo window:\
\
\{%undo0%\}\
\
The top button of this window permits undo operations (where possible).  The bottom button of this window permits redo operations (where possible).  Above the button is a pull-down menu labeled "Other".  Activating the pull-down menu reveals two menu items: "Clear Undo Memory" and "Show Undo History...".  Selecting the "Show Undo History..." item displays the following window:\
\
\{%undo1%\}\
\
This shows the current history of undoable operations that have been performed.\
\
Global find and replace allows one to scan through embedded components for a particular search string.  The first command, "Find...", brings up the following dialog:\
\
\{%find0%\}\
\
Simply place the text to find in the text field, and press "Find Next".  The system will highlight the next item, or display a dialog when no further items matching the search string are present.  The "Match Case" control can be used to indicate that matches should be case-sensitive.  The "Cancel" button takes the dialog off the screen.\
\
The dialog for the "Replace..." command (below) adds replace capabilities.  It is a superset of the "Find" dialog shown above.\
\
\{%repl0%\}\
\
When performing replacements, put the string to replace with in the text field marked "Replace With : ".  Once a selection has been highlighted using "Find Next", press the "Replace" button to replace it.  Pressing "Replace All" replaces all matching strings.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs40 \cf0 10.3 The Macro Menu\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf0 \
The Macro menu provides the ability to macro-script the component.  In addition, general multi-component operations can also be recorded.  The Macro menu has two items called "Macros..." and "Record New Macro..." respectively.  Selecting the "Macros..." item brings up the following window for using prevously recorded macros:\
\
\
\{%macro0%\}\
\
\
This window allows one to either run or delete any previously recorded macro.  The procedure is simple.  First, select the desired macro by clicking on its entry in the box titled "Macro Name : ".  After the desired macro is selected, click the "Run" button to run it or the "Delete" button to delete it.\
\
To record a new macro, select the "Record New Macro..." menu item from the "Macro" menu.  This produces the following window for creating macros:\
\
\
\{%macro1%\}\
\
\
The procedure for using this window is also straightforward.  First, specify a name for the new macro by typing it in the field titled "Macro Name : ".  Second, hit the record button.  Third, execute the series of actions to be recorded.  Each recorded action will appear in the "Macro : " section of the window.  Fourth, hit the "Stop" button to stop recording.  Finally, press either the "OK" or "Apply" button to store the macro under the specified name.  To exit from the recording process without saving the macro, press the "Cancel" button.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs40 \cf0 11.0 Execution Options
\fs28 \
\
The component can be launched from ProgramDirector, or it can be run as a standalone application (e.g. using "java verdantium.standard.DrawApp").  A number of command-line options are available for standalone execution.  Note that some of these options may not work unless the component is registered in the "apps.cfg" file in the Verdantium distribution.  A summary of some of the options is given here.  Entering the path to a file (either a local path or a URL) on the command line will cause the component, on startup, to attempt to load the file.  If the file contains embedded components, then the initial standalone load from command line will only work for embedded components that are locally defined in the "apps.cfg" file.  If "-help" is specified on the command line for standalone execution (and the component is defined in "apps.cfg") then this help page will be displayed.\
\
It should also be possible to run the component as an Applet using VerdantiumApplet with the Java Plug-In, or to run the component as a Java Bean using the BeanBridge component.  However, the supporting files for doing this are not delivered with typical Verdantium distributions (one would need to bundle one HTML file for each component to be run as an Applet and test them on multiple platforms through multiple browsers, and this isn't currently a priority; there are similar issues for supporting bean compatibility across multiple versions of the Sun BeanBox).  OLE compatibility is possible in theory.  Sun has distributed a bridge that allows Java Beans to display in an OLE container.  The OLE container could load the BeanBridge bean, which could then load any Verdantium component.  This has worked once (Microsoft Word embedded an early version of GeoFrame), but has not been subsequently tested since 1998.  Current Verdantium distributions are not delivered with the jar manifest files that are needed to make this work.  OpenDoc compatibility is no longer possible because the Cyberdog browser does not support JDK 1.4 APIs.\
\
\
}